Migration guide — Wazuh Dashboard 4.x to 5.x (#8553)
wazuh/wazuh-kibana-app: docs/guide/migration/reports.md

Reviewer: **suggestion**: add a note about the related PDF reports. Some instructions could be misunderstood.

Author: Resolved https://github.com/wazuh/wazuh-dashboard-plugins/pull/8553/changes/9069a82b19303820871ed0f02b2a3c4c433b2bac

# Reports migration

> > **Deprecation notice**: The built-in reporting feature of the Wazuh dashboard plugin has been **deprecated in Wazuh 5.x**. Report generation and management are now handled entirely by the **OpenSearch Dashboards Reporting** plugin. The plugin-specific **Management > Reporting** section is no longer available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Deprecation notice**: The built-in reporting feature of the Wazuh dashboard plugin has been **deprecated in Wazuh 5.x**. Report generation and management are now handled entirely by the **Reporting** plugin. The plugin-specific **Management > Reporting** section is no longer available.
```

The storage path is derived from the `path.data` setting in `opensearch_dashboards.yml` (default: `/usr/share/wazuh-dashboard/data`):

```
<path.data>/wazuh/downloads/reports/<hashed_username>/
```

On a standard installation this resolves to:

```
/usr/share/wazuh-dashboard/data/wazuh/downloads/reports/<hashed_username>/
```

Where `<hashed_username>` is a hash of the authenticated user's username. Each user's reports are stored in a separate subdirectory.

Users could view and download previously generated reports from the **☰ Menu > Management > Reporting** section of the dashboard.

### Custom report branding in 4.x

The 4.x plugin allowed customizing the PDF report appearance through `wazuh.yml`:

- `customization.logo.reports` — logo placed at the top left of every report page.
- `customization.reports.header` — text displayed in the report header.
- `customization.reports.footer` — text displayed in the report footer.

These settings are **not available in 5.x**. See the [Configuration migration](./configuration.md#customization-settings) guide for details.

---

## How reports work in 5.x

> Report generation is now handled by the **OpenSearch Dashboards Reporting** plugin, which is included with the Wazuh dashboard 5.x package. Reports are generated directly from dashboard views and stored in an OpenSearch index, not on the server filesystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Report generation is now handled by the **Reporting** plugin, which is included with the Wazuh dashboard 5.x package. Reports are generated directly from dashboard views and stored in an index, not on the server filesystem.
```

> > **Note**: The OpenSearch Dashboards Reporting plugin (`reportsDashboards`) is also bundled with Wazuh 4.14.x. The key difference in 5.x is that the Wazuh plugin's own built-in PDF generation (stored on the filesystem) has been removed entirely; the OSD Reporting plugin is now the sole reporting mechanism.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note**: The Reporting plugin (`reportsDashboards`) is also bundled with Wazuh 4.x. The key difference in 5.x is that the Wazuh plugin's own built-in PDF generation (stored on the filesystem) has been removed entirely; the Reporting plugin is now the sole reporting mechanism.
```

> The Wazuh plugin no longer provides a dedicated reporting section. PDF and CSV reports are generated using the **Generate report** button available within individual dashboard views and can be accessed from **☰ Menu > Reporting** (provided by the OpenSearch Dashboards Reporting plugin, registered under the **All** navigation group).

Reviewer: **question**: If you are refering to the **Generate report** button in the moduels provided by the wazuh plugin, this only can export to PDF.

Author: Resolved https://github.com/wazuh/wazuh-dashboard-plugins/pull/8553/changes/9069a82b19303820871ed0f02b2a3c4c433b2bac

### Copy reports from the filesystem

Run the following command **on the 4.x dashboard server**. Adjust the source path if `path.data` was customized in your `opensearch_dashboards.yml`:

```bash
sudo cp -r /usr/share/wazuh-dashboard/data/wazuh/downloads/reports/ \
   ~/wazuh-reports-backup-$(date +%Y%m%d)/
```

> **Note**: The `reports/` directory is owned by the `wazuh-dashboard` system user. Run the command with `sudo` or as a user with sufficient permissions to read the directory.

This copies all per-user subdirectories. Each subdirectory is named after a hash of the corresponding username. Store the backup in a location that is accessible independently of the Wazuh dashboard installation.

### Download reports through the UI (optional)

If you prefer to download reports individually before the backup:

1. Navigate to **☰ Menu > Management > Reporting**.
2. Download each report listed using the download action.

---

## Generating reports in 5.x

After completing the migration to Wazuh dashboard 5.x:

> 1. Ensure the **OpenSearch Dashboards Reporting** plugin is installed and enabled. The plugin is included with the Wazuh dashboard 5.x package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Ensure the **Reporting** plugin is installed and enabled. The plugin is included with the Wazuh dashboard 5.x package.
```

2. Navigate to the dashboard view from which you want to generate a report.
3. Click **Generate report** in the toolbar.

> 4. The report is stored in the OpenSearch Dashboards Reporting index and is accessible from **☰ Menu > Reporting** (the Reporting app is registered under the **All** navigation group, not under Management).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. The report is stored in an index and is accessible from **☰ Menu > Explore > Reporting**.
```
